here in Lapland there so clean water
every place you can drink it River and
Lake and also winter season you can use
to snow and take the snow but then when
you make the snow don't take the snow
that place well it's lot of rain to go a
little bit longer so don't take the
yellow snow
[Music]
my name is Patrick and I'm Sami reindeer
herder here in our area Finnish Lapland
this area about 17,000 square kilometers
and fishing about 6800 people and now in
May when the baby reindeer borders may
be hidden half thousand ranges
it is that kind of job as you must want
to do it it's much love in your heart
because it's hard to little fellow three
days and Norwegian but as this my butter
on top what we have and so it's up for
me okay perform or nning I take when the
appellate and because I've keeps the
Beamish on the plane so I must give
extra food it's that that the reindeer
they don't meet the people but these are
people and regulars we need to reindeer
because that's our life would usually
with the reindeer on the nature they go
away when they see the people you can
call when they have a baby but there are
now in the vent Anarkali taxable
speakers come so close
many times people ask me if you never
want to leave the cities and I get a
tick job
but I see if somebody comes to get Jamie
and I have food stuff for you exceeded
10 million every year I say you can keep
difficult enough even think about that
life without drinking my water is now 87
years old and he sees how did great
didn't see because revolution what's
happened this reindeer herding happened
thought 1965 in the first snowmobiles
before the guys like my father they have
a many reindeer hoop of the sledge and
when they go out at the forest they stay
there one or even two months and they
leaving the tepee many times I think
about that and it's nice to see that all
times when this before the snow move is
done
[Music]
and I go outside the forest you must be
a knife and map because help us maybe
snow what we get broken 30 40 comes to a
halt and you must know how to make fire
[Music]
most of the sami people they are not
regularly knowledge they are teach that
they are working in supermarket or find
coffee my two sons q go and ask now what
they went through in there go out before
you I won't be regularly but easy I had
a lot of strength but I can't even
imagine I live in big cities too many
people from the forest and this matrix
hope there is no cost no traffic there
you can hear the birds singing and
there's quiet
everybody in the world nature is very
important and I don't I hope people save
that next generation
[Music]
there's one mother in the cloth just
under three over there and the baby's
probably about our old I could just sit
and watch them for hours
what's better than TV much better than
kissing